---
layout: default
title: Introduction
---

This page will cover all of the basic information about how deep dungeons work.

## Floors

Each time you enter a deep dungeon, the goal is to complete 10 floors. The
first 9 floors of a set are regular floors with multiple rooms and many
enemies. To progress to the next level, you must kill enough enemies to unlock
the Cairn of Passage. The 10th floor is a single room boss fight. You must
defeat the boss to complete the set. Your data is saved upon successfully
completing a set, and you will then be able to enter the next set.

Each deep dungeon has a number of storyline floors. For Palace of the Dead,
this is floors 1-100. For Heaven on High it is floors 1-30. The floors beyond
these are challenge floors.

If you have a full party wipe and fail a run, you will be able to re-enter at
the same level ONLY if it is within the storyline floors. If you have a full
party wipe, you will not be able to advance beyond the storyline floors,
however; you would have to start over at floor 1 or the checkpoint. The
checkpoint is floor 51 in PotD and 21 in HoH. Note that dying with a Pomander
of Raising active will NOT count as a party wipe, and you will be able to
advance.

## Rooms

Each regular floor is composed of multiple rooms connected by halls. The number
of rooms a floor may have is always somewhat random, but depends on the
floorset, with higher floors tending to have more rooms.

The starting room is the room you begin the floor in. This room starts with no
enemies, though they can spawn there later. There are no traps in the starting
room, but there may be one or more chests. The Cairn of Return may appear in
the starting room, but the Cairn of Passage cannot.

Each room besides the starting room will start with one or more enemies in it.
A room may have a trap in it, or may not. A room may also contain one or more
chests. The Cairn of Return appears in a random room, and the Cairn of Passage
appears in a random room that is NOT the starting room.

### Treasure Rooms

Sometimes a treasure room will appear on the floor. A treasure room always
contains four chests, and will have many enemies in it. Enemies that are
normally patrols will stay in the treasure room if they spawned there.

### Hall of Fallacies (HoH only)

Occasionally in HoH, you will encounter a floor that is one huge open room with
many enemies in it. This is called the Hall of Fallacies. The Hall is actually
made up of 12 individual rooms with no walls in-between. These individual rooms
follow all the normal rules of regular rooms - non-patrol enemies stay within
the room they spawned in, there are 0-1 traps per room, one can still be a
treasure room, etc.

There may be more than one Beacon of Passage in a Hall of Fallacies. Only one
is real. Stepping on a false one will trigger a trap. These have the same trap
types described below.

## Traps

Each room besides the starting room may contain 1 trap. Some rooms have no
traps, and a room cannot have more than 1 trap.

TODO: detail the trap types

## Cairn/Beacon of Passage

This is called the Cairn of Passage in PotD and Beacon of Passage in HoH. They
function the same in both dungeons, and will both be referred to as the Cairn
of Passage below.

The Cairn of Passage is a teleporter that takes you to the next floor. It
appears in a random room on each regular floor, but can never be in the
starting room. To get to the next floor, you must kill enough enemies to
activate the Cairn of Passage, and then all party members must stand in its
circle for 3 seconds without agro.

The number of enemies you must kill to activate the Cairn of Passage is random,
with a range that varies depending on the floorset. The key icon above the
minimap changes colour to indicate how near the Cairn of Passage is to
activation.

(TODO: add key icons)

## Cairn/Beacon of Return

This is called the Cairn of Return in PotD and Beacon of Return in HoH. They
function the same in both dungeons, and will both be referred to as the Cairn
of Return below.

The Cairn of Return is used to ressurect fallen party members. It appears in a
random room on each regular floor, and may even be in the starting room.
Similar to the Cairn of Passage, it must be activated by killing a random
number of enemies before you can use it. The plant-looking icon above the
minimap changes colour to indicate how near the Cairn of Return is to
activation.

(TODO: add icons)

## Enemies

Most rooms will start with 2-3 enemies in them, but there are exceptions:

* Some floorsets have a different range. e.g. PotD 41-49 has 3-4 enemies per
  room
* Pomander of Flight halves the number of enemies (rounded up), so most floors
  end up with 1-2 instead of 2-3
* Treasure rooms will contain several additional enemies

Most enemies will stay within the room where they spawn, but each floor has at
least one type of patrol that may spawn. Patrol enemies spawn within rooms like
the other enemies, but will then wander continuously between rooms. Sometimes
no patrols will spawn on a floor, and sometimes many will. Because most enemies
stay in their rooms, it is usually safer to pull individual enemies and fight
in the hallways. Just watch out for those patrols!

Additional enemies will spawn at regular intervals. The interval varies
depending on the floorset. These additional enemies may may be patrols or
non-patrols, but will always spawn within a room - never in a hallway.

### Agro

There are three different agro types an enemy may have:

* **Sight**: will only agro if you run within a cone in front of them
* **Sound**: will only agro if you RUN close to them or bump into them while
  walking. You can safely walk past them as long as you don't run into their
  hitbox
* **Proximity**: Similar to sound except they will agro even if you're walking.
  It is often very difficult to get around them without killing them

## Aetherpool Arms and Armor

(TODO)

## Chests

A number of chests will appear on each floor. Most floors will have 4-6 chests,
but some floorsets have a different range. There are three types of chests:

* **Bronze**: contain items such as potions, phoenix downs, and most
  importantly, potsherds. Potsherds can be exchanged for several items,
  including Sustaining/Empyrial Potions, which grant a potent regen effect and
  are essential for soloing
* **Silver**: Can have one of several effects
  * Upgrade your Aetherpool arm or armor
  * Chest explodes, dealing 70% max HP damage to any players and enemies nearby
  * HoH only: chest may contain magicite
* **Gold**: Contain pomanders

Chests may also be mimics, which will attack you and can be very dangerous,
especially in the deeper floors. The type of chest that may be a mimic depends
on the floorset. In the later floors, it is always gold chests that may be
mimics.

## The Accursed Hoard

(TODO)
